---
title: 🏖️ JabRef 5.15 Release 🏖️
categories: [Release]
---

We are publishing version 5.15 - The summer release of JabRef! In the Northern Hemisphere it's summer and holiday time but we were nonetheless busy improving JabRef

Version 5.15 is basically a bugfix release of Version 5.14 which contains all stuff from 5.14, plus extra bugfixes for snap users and macOs intel users as well as fixes for the LibreOffice detection on Windows.

As always, we recommend making a backup of your bib files before trying out the new version.

## Release Highlights

One of the highlights is the support for offline extraction of IEEE references from PDFs. A new interesting feature, especially for LaTeX users is the option to use a custom BST style as Preview. It's an early Preview feature (pun intended!) and we are aware that certain LaTeX symbols are not yet rendered.
The LaTeX citations tab in the Entry Editor will now automatically update when a LaTeX file is created, removed, or modified, keeping your references up-to-date.

People using content selectors will now find it easier to select one of the existing value, no more manual typing needed.

The citations relations tab now also includes a duplicate checker to easily find missing relevant literature.

Exporting and importing references using the Endnote XML format is now smoother with our new exporter and improved importer.

Important bug fixes include the famous "Library changed" issue that annoyed many users and us developers as well.

Other highlights include various usability improvements and UI polishing.

For troubleshooting purposes, JabRef now also keeps previous log files on startup.

Take a look at the [changelog](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) for a full list of all changes.

## Known issues

BST Style Preview might not correctly render certain LaTeX symbols correctly [#11338](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/issues/11338)

### Google Summer of Code

- We have three candidates this year who are busy working on the following topics: AI-Integration, Improved Search and CSL support in LibreOffice. Stay tuned for more info coming soon.

### Special Thanks

This time we want to give a special shootout to all the first time contributors at JabRef! We hope you had a positive experience so far and continue your contribution!

We thank the following external contributors who contributed code to this JabRef release:

TODO: Insert contributors
