---
title: 🌸 JabRef 5.13 Release 🌸
categories: [Release]
---

We are publishing version 5.14 of JabRef! In the Northern Hemisphere, Spring is on it's way and we are releasing a new version with many new features and bug fixes with a focus on improving the usability (not only) for LaTeX users.

## Release Highlights

One of the notable new features is the interoperability with BibDesk. JabRef can now import BibDesk linked files and static groups. TexWorks User can now push entries from JabRef as well.

For users who want to quickly find an entry in the library, there is now a new command command line option "jump to entry" which will select an entry in the library based on its citationkey

We also added support for the `langid` field and respect BibTeX-String constants when copy-pasting between libraries. Libraries from `.aux` files can now also be generated, even if entries are missing in the library.

Other highlights include various usability improvements and UI polishing.

For troubleshooting purposes, JabRef now also keeps previous log files on startup.

Take a look at the [changelog](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) for a full list of all changes.

## Known issues

- macOS users using an older Intel x86_64 cpu might experience crashes when starting JabRef. We have reported the bug to the Java Team already and are waiting for more information.

### Google Summer of Code

- We have received a couple of convincing proposals so far and will now start reviewing and raking them. Stay tuned. For more information follow the [GSOC Timeline](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2024)

### Special Thanks

This time we want to give a special shootout to all the first time contributors at JabRef! We hope you had a positive experience so far and continue your contribution!

We thank the following external contributors who contributed code to this JabRef release:

TODO generate the list

Furthermore, we thank all users who continuously tested and reported back on different development versions.
Finally, since JabRef is entirely run by volunteers, we would like to thank all our donators who financially support the development! To be part of that community, please check out our [donation possibilities](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/wiki/Donations).
