---
title: 🌞 JabRef 6.0-alpha.6 Release and three GSOC projects 🌞
tags: [release]
---

It's just May and we again have a full changelog since the last release.

And JabRef once again got accepted for this year's [Google Summer of Code (GSOC)](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2026/organizations/jabref-ev)

We are happy to announce the release of **JabRef 6.0 Alpha 6**, the next step towards the stable version of JabRef 6.0.

It's formally an alpha release because we have a couple of things left in our backlog for a Beta version. But nonetheless this version includes plenty of fixes and improvements and thus we invite everyone to try out this version and report any encountered issues to make JabRef even more stable.

## Release Highlights

- Improved theming in JabRef - Big thanks to @Maran32!
- Revamped notifications and pop-up toast into a single center info center.
- Improved Usability e.g. for citation relations
- Improved generation and and handling of inserted citations in LibreOffice

Despite these, there were plenty of bug fixes across all parts of JabRef. Check out our Changelog for all changes and fixes.

## Known issues

- Custom themes may not work in the current Version, however we are working on making them compatible with the new theming system.
  
## Google Summer of Code

JabRef is participating in GSOC this summer with three projects:

- Zeyad Abdelfattah will be working on "Improved handling of older documents with OCR and AI-powered tools."
- Hancong Zhang will work on "Improved LibreOffice-JabRef integration" with one particular aspect of compatibility with other reference managers.
- Wanling FU will work on improving startup times for our CLI-based tool JabKit by leveraging the power of Hashtag GraalVM.

Stay tuned for more project updates during the summer.

### Special Thanks

This time a special thanks to [Terry Bollinger](https://terrybollinger.com/) for sponsoring JabRef!

A special thanks to [Marius](https://github.com/Maran23) who fixes longstanding bugs in the UI framework JavaFX that surfaced in JabRef.

It’s people like those who help keep this software going.

We thank all the external contributors who contributed code to this JabRef release.

TODO: Add contributors from script
